Thank you Jonathan. OK.
First of all, uh, the UM.
I mean, this morning was the deadline
for the lab 08 and lecture 08.
And, uh, we pushed.
The uh assignment for the week 9 1 week.
To the next week.
So next week Wednesday gonna be the
deadline for the lab 09 and lectures
in online and today's topic gonna help
you a lot about solving solving the issue.
That lab basically in the lab assignment
we said that the child cannot pass
the information to the parents.
And how, how can you fix that problem?
So today you can see one or two
approaches to solve that problem,
although there are other programming
approaches to solve that problem.
And, uh, the topic of today's lecture
is is from the Chapter 15 of the book,
UM, Interprocess communication.
Again, a whole topic of IPC or interprocess
communication happens when you have
multiple process inside the memory.
A we are in the multiprocessing
environment or multi programming
environment with a single processor.
Most of these topics can be extended
to a platform that has multiple
processor or multiprocessor environment.
But for the sake of discourse we assume
that we have only one single processor
but multiple process inside memory.
So. We are trying to introduce ways
of communication between processes.
The immediate one is the parent and child.
But generally we can extend it to
any process to any other process.
We already explained signals
as a way of communication,
but a signal there are software
interrupts or shocks.
So actually the name says that it's
kind of interrupts or shocking from
one process to another process.
And usually it is used for urgent
communication or some kind of giving
some warning or alarm another process.
I mean, already says that, uh,
most these signals are fixed.
The list of signals are fixed.
Define and there is a default
action associated to these signals.
Most of them are termination,
meaning that if the receiver process
doesn't do anything about the signal,
that receiver going to be terminated
abnormally.
Uh, also we introduce how a receiver
process can catch a signal and
handle the signal in the proper way.
But in general,
signaling between processors are used
for as a shock or as an interrupt,
not each other.
He said that we are trying to find
a kind version of communication.
Basically a normal communication
between two processes.
In this communication,
two process can ask each other to
do some task and they may accept
or reject the request and they can
continue this communication for
longer periods of time or forever.
Uh, we have Maysam where
these signals are saved.
You mean the list of signals are
we already showed you a table a
in the previous slides we showed
the table inside the book also.
Inside this slide you can see that table up.
I let me. Let me open the slide for.
A previous.
Yeah, in the previous slides
that there was a table.
What is that table?
Yeah, in this table these are
the lists of all signals,
default action and etc.
And the description of
them these are fixed.
Yes, they are all part of the kernel.
The implementation is part of the kernel,
but if you want to use them as a signal
from one process to another process,
we said we have a system called kill.
Uh, so basically you put the PID of the
process and you put these constants.
Or the number of the signal.
You can say that,
for instance the signal #5,
but usually remembering the
numbers are difficult.
Usually use the constant
name for that number.
So for instance SIGINT second track.
So these are defined in the in terms
of definition of these signals and
the association between the numbers
they are in the signal dot H.
The header file in this
header file if you open it,
you can see the list of all signals.
That are defined, for instance,
that you have macros such as define.
Uh. SIGINT 2.
And then another line define.
A SIG. A terminal stop,
for instance 5 and etc.
All these constants are
defined this header file.
So. What are the ways of
communication normal communication?
So let's back to review how a parent can
create a child and then start from there.
This is the generation model
one we already discussed this.
Basically the pattern does the fork check
the return PID if it is greater than zero,
it means that it's a parent else,
meaning that the child PID is zero.
These are the lines of.
So that is reachable by the child at runtime.
So the parent, although have this
statement but never reaches these lines.
So these are child tasks,
but after A and at the end the child
doesn't exist himself or herself.
And, uh, but after these blocks of
checking we can reach out these lines
of code or can be reachable by the.
Parents,
we put that ask about the pants here and
one of the most important task of the
parent is waiting for the child to finishes.
And then does other things.
And finally the pan exists.
And at runtime we already know that we
have the exact clone or copy of the parent.
To the child in another memory
space as a copy.
So because these are copies,
uh, as a result,
whatever changes to the child.
Never goes to the parents and
whatever changes to the parents,
variables or any part of the parents
never goes to the child so they cannot
communicate normally with each other,
so they have to find another
location or another media to
communicate with each other.
So again, because they are in
the different memory space,
they are totally distinct from each other.
They cannot communicate normally.
So. Like in Lab 09,
if you've read about that lab,
the child does some tasks and
provides some results and wanted
to pass it to the parrot.
So. If you think about that,
we already said that how to
store information in files.
So the most immediate solution to this
problem is using a third party or a third
media as a location for communication.
So the first way of communication is using
a single file and we already said that
whenever we save file in the same time,
we may mean device because in
the file system part of the Unix.
Anything is a device.
Any device is a file treated
as a device as it file.
So you can choose a device.
Uh, for instance,
terminal device or whatever device
has the means of communication
or the file inside the storage.
Another way is that one of
the devices are memory,
but we said that memory is a
special device usually handled
by another part of the kernel.
But again,
you can't use another part of
the memory as a shared space
between the child and the parent.
So in both case you'll have
to share somewhere else.
Either in memory somewhere
else or in a file or a device.
So today I'm going to explain about the file.
Uh,
I leave the memory for you
as a research topic,
but we usually use the file
as a means of communication.
So how this is possible?
Uh, basically. Inside the parents,
before doing the fork.
We can have some lines of code
to share a file or to share
the file descriptor to a file.
So and then when we do the fork,
we know that the exact copy of the same
lines going to be in the path in the chart.
So as a result, the child has the
file descriptor the same file,
or at least knows the name of the file.
So if child can open or write or read from
the same file that is shaped by the parent.
So both of them knows to what file they have
to write into or they have to read from.
Inside the child part of the code,
the child uses the filename to
open it and write into it,
or use the file descriptor to write to it.
So at the child part we can
write to the file.
Inside the pan part of the code we
can use the same filename to open
it and read from or use the shared
file descriptor to read from.
So for the child we can write
for the parent we can read.
This way,
if the child wants to pass some information
or communicate with the parent,
the child provides the information
to the file.
And then when it finishes the
parent waiting for the child to
finishes after the child finishes,
the parent opens the file and read
whatever the child passes to the parentt.
So you see,
this is a shared space used by the
child to write information and used
by the parent to read information.
And, uh, here is the, uh,
another way to show the same principle.
So basically, when the parent
does the fork exact copy goes to
another memory space as a child,
the child can open that the same file,
the name of the file is
already shared by the parent.
Can open the file a as a writing.
In order to write the information.
And because the child does
the open for the writing file,
it has its own offset.
So the child opens the file to
write and has its own offset
and start writing to the file.
When the child finishes, then the
parent opens the same file again,
but this time opens for reading,
so it has its own offset,
but this time for reading.
So whatever the child writes to the
file and this is the shared file,
the name of the file that is shared
between two process patent and child.
The current offset moves.
But when the child finishes.
And the parents wants to open the file.
It's a new file descriptor,
so the offset going to be zero
again because it's a new opening
of the file and then the parent
start reading whatever the child
already written to the file.
So in order to just see in an example
this idea of sharing a file name.
Assume that we want to
calculate this math formulation.
X to the power of 2 + 5.
But we want the X to the power
of two done by the child.
And then the last operation addition by 5.
Done by the parent.
And the X is given by
the user from the shell.
So here is a very simple code I
shared this code in the blackboard.
So basically the parents simply say
that let's share a file with this name.
Child results.
It just wanted to share the name of the file.
So it defines an area of characters
and puts the name of the file.
And then the parent, uh,
tries to accept the number
from the shell by the user
and convert it to a number X.
And then the parent does the fork.
And does the normal checking
in order to figure out which
lines of code is for the child,
which lines of code for the
parent we already saw this before.
And then assuming that the child does.
Per task and brings X to the power of 2.
And finishes.
So the parent waits for the child to finish.
And then after the child finishes
a dependent gonna be wakes up,
wakes up by the woke up by the kernel.
And then. The parent opens.
The same file, but this time for reading.
And reads whatever, uh,
the IT is available inside
the file so it reads.
This is the buffer of just
one integer number.
Why just one integer number?
Because if the child want us to
bring the X to the power of two,
the result is just one integer number,
so the child rights only one integer number.
As a result,
the pattern should read only
one integer number.
So we have a buffer of just one
size that accept one integer value.
So the pattern reads,
reads that single integer.
When the child is done and
then closes that file.
Does the its own operation addition
by 5 and returns the result in
the terminal and then exits.
So these are the tasks by the parents,
so the parents share the file name,
does the forking and waits for the child
to finish is when the child finishes,
it opens the file.
Read whatever the child returned
to the file and add with file.
Inside the child part of the code.
The child basically have the X
because we said it's a copy of
their parents or before fork this
gonna be copied to the child as
well so the child knows what is X.
So the child defines a buffer
of 1 integer value.
And then puts the power of two
X * X is X to the power of two
and puts it into the buffer.
And then opens the file with this
name and this name is already copied
from the parent to the child because
it's in the part of the code.
Carried by the parents.
So, but the child OPS opens it as a right?
And then, uh. Writes the.
Power of the I mean power.
Two of the number.
Into the file and simply says that
I've II wrote the result and closed
the file descriptor to that file.
And says that I'm done.
And exists.
Ah michelle ask uh.
Why we need a buffer of one size?
This is because of the system called
for read and write into the file.
You remember the system called read.
It needs a file descriptor and
here it needs an array of void.
A basically a pointer to a
location or void as a buffer.
So this location would be an
array or a sequence of elements.
Why this is void?
Because you can use any type
of data of any type of data.
In previous labs,
you used to write text, so you use.
A character or arrays of car.
But here the information that the child
and the parent wants to read or write.
These are integers,
but just one single integer.
So you have to define an area of integer.
For this system called read or write,
it doesn't matter what.
What is the type of the array.
It could write any type of data for you,
but it should be an array.
Yes, Isaac says that yes.
I mean it would be very easier if
you just passed the number here,
but that's the way the system called works.
You have to provide as an array.
And if you run this program so
this program is called this,
I mean parent child sharing a file name.
And basically this is the first line.
It says I'm a lonely process
and then it does the fork.
So the parent had this PID
and the child have this PID.
You can see here that the child.
When it opens the file.
Because the parent is waiting for the child,
so parent is sleeping right now.
The child has the processor.
The child opens the file,
so the next available file descriptor
is free because the zero one and two.
These are the standard file descriptors
for input, output and error.
So the next available number
by the kernel is free.
So the child is given the file
descriptor 3 and the child does
the power to the two power of.
Sorry,
it brings the number X to the
power of two right four bytes
because in this platform integer
is 4 byte and then says that I
brought the X to the power of two,
so the input was four to the program,
so it becomes 16.
So the child rights 16 into the file.
And then it finishes.
Before it finishes,
it closes the file descriptor,
so when it closes the file descriptor,
this file descriptor becomes
available by the kernel to be reused.
The parent tries to open the same file,
but this time in a reading mode,
so the next available ID going to be free.
The same file descriptor because
it's already released by the child,
so they cannot use the next available number,
which is 3 again and then the
pattern reads four bytes,
one single integer number adds it with five,
so it becomes 21.
And if you want to see the
content of the file that is shared
between these two processes,
so this this was the name
of the file that is shared.
So if you go back to the.
Program this is the name of the file
that is shared between two processes.
So you may want to open it with another
software to see what is the content.
So as a reminder which command
is the correct command to see
the content of the file that is
shared between the processes.
VI or hexdump.
Any idea?
I suck, says Hexdump.
So Isaac says his head stone heads.
Michelle says that why not cats?
That's another option.
So we can say that Cat Child but.
If you do that, is it going to show us
the content in a readable format or not?
So these are thought of I mean
questions in the final exam.
Some of you ask me what are the types
of questions in the final exam.
So basically, if you see in the code.
We write integer numbers.
We don't write characters,
so when you write integer numbers by the
system called right or when you read,
these are in binary formats,
so these are not characters.
So if you use cats.
Or if you use VI.
These are the cat command or the icon.
I mean program shows you the
character is in a readable way.
But if you see the content it should,
I mean, uh, the content of a binary file.
You can see some characters
that cannot be readable.
The best way is the hexdump,
because it just shows you the
hexadecimal of the binary numbers.
So basically this file is not a text file.
It is a binary file because we wrote a
integers as a binary inside the file.
Yes, hexa dump.
It basically shows the binary
numbers in hexadecimal numbers.
So for instance, if you write 32
it brings it to the hexadecimal.
If it is in decimal, you can see
the values in hexadecimal format,
so you see the numbers in hexadecimal.
Yeah, so the best way is
the hexdump or object dump.
Mesa mass. Is this the case for
all fires are again as I said.
It depends on what type of information
you are reading or writing.
If you write characters VI
and the cat is the best one,
but if you write other than characters,
for instance integers floats and said
that these are going to be trimming.
Uh. Transport to the binary.
So then the files is a binary
file and then the heads up is
the best way to view define.
OK, the next example is very
similar to the first example.
But this time, instead of just
sharing the name of the file we
want to share the file descriptor.
We want to say that what if
the parent opens the file?
For read and write and then
share the file descriptor.
This way the child doesn't need to
open the file herself because it's
already opened and the child can
use define descriptive to simply
write just more simpler coding.
So, but, uh, there is a, uh,
I mean fundamental difference
between the way they work.
So if the parents opens the file.
For instance, fight, uh? I mean child.
Underline result the text.
And then.
The return file descriptor
shared to the child.
There is a single file descriptor to be
used both by the parent and the child.
As a result.
Both of them gonna use the same offset.
And if the child writes some information.
It moves the offset forward.
And if the parent wants to read it
should bring back the of an offset
to the first and then start reading
because they are using the same
file descriptor for read and write.
As a result,
we have one single correct offset.
Each of them may move it
by reading a writing,
so the other one should reset it
to the position that is needed
for reading or writing again.
So if the child rights information,
the current offset, for instance,
moves forward up until Francis did by 10,
and if the parent wants to read
the information, the parents should
reset or change the current offset.
For instance, the beginning of the file,
and then I started reading.
And here is the same program
but with a little bit changed
the parents. Opens the file.
This is another file just
to make it different.
For read and write.
And here is the file descriptor.
And then it does the 4th.
We know that the 4th does the exact
copy of the parent of the child.
As a result, the child has the same
exact FT with the same number,
both of them if they.
If they three, both the parent and
the child sees the FT as the number 3.
The same file descriptor.
Inside the child part,
then the child already knows what
is the axe already knows what is
defined descriptor to the file,
it just simply right.
The parents, after waiting
for the child to finish.
It should do another, uh, I mean,
changing the current offset by the
system called to the LC because
the offset is changed by the child.
The parents should bring it back to the first
position and then read the information.
So you see here when you,
when the parents shares the
file descriptor with the child,
the parents should be careful
about the current offset.
Whatever the current office
is changed by the child,
the parent should manipulate that.
I mean, it's the parents should put
it in the correct position to read
them from the desired information.
And then basically it is reads
and then add with five and then
prints out the result.
So that's the main difference
between these two examples.
The example one shares the
name of the file, the child,
and the parent separately opens the file.
But in the second example,
the pattern opens the file for read and
write and shares the file descriptor.
So this way the child and the parent
used the same file descriptor
to open a read to read or write.
There is no need for opening for the child,
however, because a single
file descriptor is shared,
we have to be careful about the
position of the current offset.
But one a question would be this.
We already said that if a process terminates.
The kernel closes all the open file
descriptors. So inside the child.
When the child writes team formation
using the same file descriptor.
And then basically says that
I'm done and then it exists.
It finishes. So the child doesn't
closes the file descriptor.
If it does that, then the pan cannot
read from the same file descriptor,
so the parents should open it again.
The child just does the writing.
However, if the child exists the kernel,
we already said that the kernel
closes all open file descriptors.
If this is true,
then after the parent wakes up,
the pad is using the same file descriptor.
If the kernel closes the file
descriptor after finishing the child,
so this file descriptor is not a
valid file descriptor, it is closed,
and it cannot use the close file
descriptor to seek or write or read.
So. I can tell you that this
program works perfect.
But uh, what's the, what's the, uh?
I mean, inconsistency here.
On the one hand,
we said that the kernel closes
all open file descriptors
when the process terminates.
So here the child finishes,
so the kernel should close
the file descriptor.
On the other hand, if you run this program,
there is no error in these lines of code,
meaning that the file descriptor is
not closed by the kernel. Why is that?
So. I suck says that, uh,
I'm guessing the kernel keeps
track of which PID's are using,
which file descriptors,
and since both parent and child are using it,
it knows not to close it off very close.
But The thing is that you're right,
the kernel knows which process
are using the file descriptor.
And the owner of this file
descriptor is the parent process,
not the child process.
So if the child process exists.
This file descriptor is
not opened by the child.
So the kernel doesn't have
this file descriptor as a
property of the child process,
so although it closes all open file
descriptors but those file descriptors
that belongs to the process,
this file descriptor doesn't belong,
or doesn't is not open by the child,
it is opened by the parent.
So it is part of the parent process,
not the child.
So what we said already is correct.
And here is a trick here so.
The file descriptor is shared by the child,
is not for the child,
it just for the child to use it.
So it doesn't belong to the child.
So if you can run this program
and see it works perfectly.
But the. Problem with the example
one and example two is that it
does just one communication.
One, the round of communication.
Basically it accepts.
Annex the child and brings it to
the power of two right information
to the file and the pattern reads
it and added five just one time.
But we want to make it better.
We want to have a continuous
communication or a conversation.
Between the child and the parent.
Probably forever,
as long as the user wants to continue
the program we want the parent and
the child to communicate with each
other or converse with each other.
Up until the user decides
to end the whole program.
So before I explain this,
I'm ready to check your questions.
So we have.
Yes, Ben says correctly.
Basically the child when the child
finishes the kennel only closes those file
descriptors that are opened by the child.
So as a result, this file descriptor
which is opened by the panel,
we will not be closed by the Kern.
I suck says what if the parents?
Ends before the child.
Does the file descriptor
now close on the yes?
Yes, if that's why, uh,
that's why we use this model.
We want the parent to
finishes after the child.
That's why we put the weight
here in order for the parent
to wait for the child to finish
this first and then continues.
If you don't put this one and then
at some point the parents give more
share of processor and finishes sooner.
Then as you can see here,
even the parent does the clothes.
Even the parent doesn't do this.
Closing the carrier closes the Fe and
then when they tried the richest this part.
A it cannot write anything because
the file descriptor is closed.
Yeah.
So I success that kind of.
We're tasking child
process to do work for us.
Do we have to fail? Uh.
True as it stands, yes, yeah, uh.
Basically that's funny.
Yes, yeah, we usually create a
child to do the labor for us,
which is in our I mean in our society.
It's not a good way.
But yes, in programming in multi
environment multiprogramming environment
we usually do the child to do the
labor for us or other tasks for us.
But again these are not actually the child.
These are the exact copy of
the parents or you can refer
them as the clone of yourself.
So that's why I post this movie.
These are not child.
Actually these are clone of the parents.
So you create clone of yourself
to do the labor for you.
But you are free of anything.
That's a better way to do things
to think about that.
Yeah.
But I mean in the books or in the I
mean literature we call it parent child.
OK, so any other questions?
It seems there is no question,
so how can we provide a continuous
communication or a conversation?
So I'm trying. I'm trying to explain
this in an example of the third example.
This same. Task, but we want to
do the same task forever as long
as the user provides an X for us.
We want to do this math formula
up until sometime that the user
wants to end the whole program
so the user enters minus one,
meaning that I don't want to
continue this math formulation
and simply ask the program to.
I mean terminates the whole program,
the parent and the child.
Again, like before,
we give this task to the child and the
parent does the addition with file.
So one solution is this are called
solution A which is kind of very
tricky and for lazy students.
Uh, or lazy programmers, uh,
but that's a good trick.
That's a good way to good point to start.
Basically, you could say
that I can use the same code,
for example one or example 2.
Inside a while forever loop,
meaning that while one one is always through,
the condition is true.
So this while loop goes forever.
And inside this while loop
I just copy paste the code,
for example one or example 2.
So let's see what happens.
So basically I did the same so these
are all the lines of code for example 2.
With just minor changes
and explain those changes,
but I put all these lines of code in a while.
While one meaning that forever
does all these lines of code.
So everything is the same.
The only difference here is in
the child we have to check that
the user inputs minus one or no.
So basically the X,
the number is not coming from the shell
because we want the user to input the
axe and then does the math for that text.
So as a result,
we don't want the X from the shell,
so we don't use this line instead.
We ask the.
Charge 2.
Provide A to do this scanner,
meaning that ask the user to
input and number so the child
ask the user to input a number
and if the number is minus one,
the child basically says
that we have to finish it,
writes minus one to the file and exit itself.
And then in the parents.
The patent reads minus one
and basically says that OK,
the child telling me that we have to
finish and then they patent finishes.
So you see,
there is no other way to exit from this.
While the only way to end
this whole program is just.
The user inputs minus one,
then the child rights minus one
and exit their parent reads minus
one from the file and exits.
Everything is the same.
So if you run this program,
it runs forever up until the user minus one.
For instance, at first it puts.
Let's see some run of this algorithm.
For instance,
if you run this algorithm at this program.
So this is the parent.
It does the fork and this is the
child the child ask the user to
input a number positive number.
I put two the child Bridget,
to the power of two and write
the result into the file.
And then finishes.
The parent opens the file,
reads the result of the child
added with five and right at 9.
So you see here the same file descriptor
going to be used by the child and the parent.
And then it goes to another
iteration of the while.
So again, the same patterns.
However.
The line of four gonna be called again.
So we create a new child.
And this new child asks the
user for new input four,
I put four and the child being
due to the power of 216,
writes it to the file and then finishes.
The parent after finishing the child
reads the information as with five,
so it becomes 21.
And then it goes to another
iteration of the while,
so the same parent.
But creating a new child by the
forking and then ask the user to
input a new number and attachment.
So you see here that for each iteration
of the while or each calculation
of the math for a new input,
the parent is the same,
but the child going to be a new child.
So for each iteration,
we create a new child or the child
does the power to brings the number
to the power of two finishes and
then we do the rest and then next
iteration we create a new child.
So this works forever and does our task,
but The thing is that we don't
like this type of solution.
Basically it's a very bad solution
and we consider this solution as the
wrong solution, although it works,
but it's not a correct answer.
And the reason is that for each
iteration you create a new child.
So basically very similar
to the plot of this movie.
This magician this guy for
each presentation of his magic,
he creates a new clone of himself and
does the magic and then kills that clone.
And the next time again he
creates a new clone of himself.
So we don't like this a way of
communication because there is no kind.
I mean continuous conversation.
Basically, each time you have a new child.
But we like.
The way that this magician,
I mean, Alfred does.
Basically he creates.
One single clone of himself,
and he continues to live and can do the
conversation with that single clone forever.
So how we do that?
So this is called solution P.
And in order to do that,
we have to follow a logic.
So.
When the parent does the fork,
we have a child as a clone of the parent.
And here is the file that is shared.
Buy both of them.
At first, the pattern says
that I have nothing to do.
I go into a sleep.
And gives the control to the child.
There is similar.
I mean, the child then says that
I asked a number from the user.
The user enters and number X.
And then the child brings it to the power
of two and writes still answer to the file.
And then tells the parents or our.
Her MA says that wake up Ma.
I did the calculation for the user input
and now it's your turn to do the rest.
To do the addition with five and
then the child goes to his sleep.
Because the child is done with the
first input, so there is nothing
to do with the child anymore.
So the child instead of just exit or
instead of just finishing it goes to sleep,
meaning that it is still inside the memory.
When the child wakes up the parents.
The parents, uh, receives the wake up call.
Uh, and then wake up.
And then reads the information from the file,
which is the result of the child and
with five and then prints out the final
result into the terminal for the user.
And then. Tells to the child that,
OK, I'm done with the first input.
Now you have to wake up to do another
round of communication and I go to sleep.
So you see here the order of
these sleeping and waking up.
So at first the parent is sleeping,
the child is a, I mean, awake.
Child does,
the task goes to sleep before going to
sleep at the child wakes up the parrot.
The parent is wakes, I mean is awake
does the rest of the task and then,
uh, finally, uh goes to sleep,
but before going to sleep,
wakes up the child.
And the child wakes up again,
says that, OK, let's do it again.
Goes the first statement and we
ask the user to input in number.
So you see here this circulation
this way of awake,
I mean sleeping and waking up
can continue forever up until
the user inputs minus one.
Then the child decides to finish and
then the parent can finish it after that.
This way we have the same
child and the same parent,
so we have a single child,
single parent communicating
with each other forever.
So the difference here is that the parents.
Doesn't do the wedding.
Because the weighting system
called is for the child to exist.
But here the child never except
the child is there forever,
up until the user puts minus one.
But before that child exists forever.
Instead. The child goes to pause state,
meaning that it goes to temporary sleeping.
We already saw a system called
ASLEEP which accepts a number.
In terms of the number of seconds.
We can put that process into
asleep for some seconds.
But the problem with this system
call is that it needs that number.
For instance, you can say that it slipped 5,
so the process is sleep for five seconds.
But here the amount of sleeping
depends on the other process.
So basically you want to sleep up
until somebody else wakes you up.
So in this platform,
the child.
Ghostly sleep up until the parent wakes
up the child or the parent goes this slip
up until the child wakes up the parent.
So we don't know the exact time of sleeping,
that's why we cannot use
these sleep system code.
There is another system called called Pause.
Pause is slipping a without knowing the time.
The period of the sleeping and we will
slip up until somebody else wakes up.
Wake up us.
And here is the code for this communication.
So basically the way we can wake up a
paused process is through the signal.
We already know those signals.
So here we define signal user one.
As a signal to wakes up the parrot.
So the parent subscriber
function to handle this signal.
So this is the line executed by the parrot.
So the parents subscriber function,
uh, for this system called,
meaning that the parent wants to
wake up by receiving this signal.
I'll explain what is the inside
of this function in later slides.
And then after this registration.
Telling the kernel that whenever I
receive this signal, I wanna wake up.
It does the fork and the rest is the same,
checking the return time whether
it's child or the parent process.
And then inside the child also the child.
Subscribe another signal in order to say
that whenever I receive this signal,
the kernel please wakes me up.
So the the child subscribe to another
signal signal user 2 dysfunction.
Basically telling the kernel that
whenever if I goes to his sleeping mode,
meaning that if I'm paused.
And somebody wants to wakes me up
that that process should send me
a signal user two to wake me up.
And the kernel sends the signal to the
opposed child and which the child up.
So by these two registration,
uh or subscription, the parent and
the child says that whenever I receive
these signals, we want to wake up.
The child. After the initial statement of
the child is that by after the registering,
because there is a working cycle
is should be work should be
started by the parent. At first,
the choices that I have nothing to do.
I go to his sleeping mode up
until the parent starts the whole
flow or the whole conversation.
So in this code,
the conversation is stopped by the parent
and before the parent starts a conversation.
The child goes to the sleeping mode.
Inside the parents.
As you can see here,
there is no wait system call.
Because the parent doesn't expect
the child to exit or terminated,
the parents expect the child
to examine to exist forever.
So inside the parents the parents.
This starts the conversation by week.
See waking up the child,
the parents and the signal kill.
Again, kill is a system
called that doesn't kill it.
Just send the signal.
It depends on the signal that is sent.
So the parents sent the signal to the child.
Sigusr 2, which is a signal
catched by the child to wake up.
So this system this command
basically this line of code.
The pattern is trying to wakes up
the child by sending this signal.
And then when the child wakes up,
the pattern itself goes to sleep.
Now the child has the control.
But this signal is going to
be catched by the function.
The handler of the signal inside the child.
What is that handler?
This is the handler for the child.
When the child received the wake up call.
The child says that OK.
Uh, I wake up I'm ready to accept an input
from the user, so it provides the buffer.
It provides the variable X.
It asks the user to input in number.
And then, uh, opens the file to write
the result if the user put minus one,
then the child decides to exist,
otherwise the child brings it
to the power of two, right?
The result and then?
Before going to sleep.
It wakes up the parent.
Basically tells the pattern that I'm
done with the power to power two.
Now it's your turn more wake up.
It sends a signal to the parent PID,
means parent PID.
The signal which is.
Catched, which is caught by the.
By the pallet.
Seek user one and then goes to sleep.
The parents. When it received the seed user,
one, uh, basically it's a
wake up call from the child.
The parent wakes up, opens the file,
reads the information from the file,
add with the file,
and print out the result,
and then says that I'm done.
Before going to the slip,
it wakes up the child.
Send the signal to the child
to wake up and do the another
round of a I mean task.
If you run this program,
the logic works. So basically, uh,
at any time the child does the work,
and when it's done with the task,
it goes to sleep.
Then the parent is wake up,
does the rest of the work goes to sleep,
but before going to sleep,
each one wakes up the other one.
But if you run this program,
you see that this program stops at this line.
So basically the pattern
says that on the parent.
And then tries to wake up the child.
And then goes to sleep.
The child goes to the it's lines of code.
And then. Islips I was waiting
for the parent to start the whole
conversation the whole flow.
At this time,
both of them are inside a sleeping mode.
Both of them are slept.
I mean, there are in the pause
state or sleeping mode. So.
You have the code.
You will have the code and you
can play with this code and see
what's the problem with the code.
The logic of the code.
Race on this flow is correct,
but there are some problems inside
the code that something happens.
That both of them goes to sleeping mode
waiting for the other one to wake them up.
This is called deadlock.
So. If you run this code.
The program doesn't have any progress
because both the child and the
both parent goes to sleeping mode,
which is called deadlock.
Meaning that both of them are
waiting for the other one to do the
signal and which the other one up.
It is your task to find the problem
with the code, and I'm not going
to explain what's the problem.
But this is a good practice for you to,
uh, I mean. Work with a I mean
conversation between two processes,
the parent and the child.
OK, so any questions.
Ah, unfortunately I haven't
had the chance to watch any
episode of the Star Wars.
That's why I couldn't use it, but.
Now that you say this, uh,
I will watch the movie and then we can.
Definitely we can use it,
yes, thank you, cap.
Any questions?
For sure, why not? Yes for sure, yeah.
Oh, uh, I suck ask that.
Uh, will we cover anything about memory map?
A memory map is the second approach
to communication between processes,
basically sharing a memory part,
I mean a part of the memory to
be shared by multiple processes.
Uh, unfortunately we don't have
enough time to cover that part.
We only use the communication through files.
So we don't cover the
communication through memory.
But that's a that's a good a I mean topic.
You can work on it because working
with the memory is much more faster.
Uh, but for this course we use
the simple way of communication,
which is the files.
OK, so. If you try hard, I mean if you
practice the code that I wrote for this.
A conversation between the parent and
child and try to find the problem.
You may waste about one or two days.
Or five to six hours to find the problem.
And after finding the
problem you have to fix it.
Then you have to spend another one
or two days to fix the problem
and basically it's kind of a.
Uh you may hate.
Providing conversation between parent
and child because of these issues.
You have to avoid, uh, I mean, uh.
You have to find those moments that
there's a chance that both of the
process goes to his sleeping and etc.
So because of these challenges, uh,
the most.
Basic and the oldest version of the
conversation between the parent and
the child is provided by the kernel.
Basically, the killer says that don't
worry about these opening the files.
Closing defies seeking difers.
These pauses and wakes up the best
way of signaling the other process.
Two weeks of the other process or etc.
All these parts of the code at the end,
even if you write the perfect code,
it may have some bugs.
So in order to avoid all of these,
the kernel provides something called pipe,
which is an unnamed file.
Meaning that the Kenneth says that
I provide the way of conversation.
Buy a file,
but I don't give you the name of the file.
I handle everything myself.
So although it is a file,
but it is totally handled by the kernel,
so you cannot open it.
You don't know the name of that,
but actually it is not part
of the file system.
It is totally managed by the kernel.
So from us as a system level program
as a application level programmer,
we don't know how the pipe
is managed by the kernel,
we just use it.
But behind the scene Pyre,
pipe can be a real file or can be
a memory space or can be a device.
Again, we don't know, but these are
different ways of implementation
by different operating systems.
Uh, this is important for those
that who wants to implement an
operating system but for us.
Just we want to use it so we can simply,
uh, use it as a pipe,
as an unnamed file. But what is ?
As its name says, that a pipe.
Easy. You know I directional.
Or forward only way of communication.
This is the technical
terminology half duplex.
Meaning that the communication
happens in one way.
As a result,
this this communication or conversation
cannot be rewind or cannot be CQ.
I mean to the first position.
It is very similar to the
chatting environment,
but imagine that you have a chatting program,
but you cannot scroll and see
all the previous messages.
You just continue the conversation.
Because of this, uh,
I mean property of forward
only or united directional.
The part that provides the information
to the pipe is called producer.
So we have one process that
produce information and pushes
the information into the pipe.
In the other end of the pipe,
we have another process or another guy
that only consumes the information.
Basically just read the information and
pops the information from the pipe.
So one side producer pushes the
information or right information.
One side consumer only pops the
information or reads the information.
And again, when the information is read,
it's not anymore inside the pipe.
It's already done, it's out of the pipe.
So in order to, uh.
To ask the Colonel to provide us a pipe.
A this system call is provided.
It is in the Unix standard header file.
The name of this system
called is simply pipe.
It accepts an array of two integers.
So these are basically an
array of two locations.
At first, initially it is empty or it is
initialized by zero or whatever numbers,
but you pass these two locations
to the system call and then the
kernel provides with a real or
actual file descriptors to the pipe.
So you see,
here pipe is actually a file,
but we don't know the name of the file.
We don't have access to the file,
but behind the scene it is a file.
And when you ask the Colonel to
provide you a file as a pipe.
You have to pass the containers
for the file descriptors.
So the first file descriptor and
the second file descriptor.
The first position of the location
that you give to the kernel is a
which is for instance FD0 index zero.
It is the file descriptor only for read.
So you see, you already saw the
standard file descriptor 0 for
input device, so here's the.
I miss similar terminology.
The fears or FT0 is for reading.
The second position,
which is the index one of
the location is for writing.
And if it is successful,
meaning that you can have
a pie from the kernel,
it returns 0 otherwise. They can.
I cannot give you a pipe.
It returns minus one.
So. As a normal process,
when you do a system called pipe and provide
the location for two file descriptors.
The Colonel. Krista pipe for you.
And it only it doesn't
return the name of the pipe,
just returns the file descriptor to the pipe.
FT0, the first location, is for reading.
The second location is for writing.
But both of them are inside a single process.
So there is no huge benefit for this,
because the same process wants to
write or produce information to the
file pipe and then the same process
wants to read from the same pipe.
So we can do it with the normal file.
What's the benefit of using the pipe?
There is no benefit to the pipe when
you are using it in a single process.
Because you can do it with any normal files.
You can open a file for read and write
and do whatever you already saw this.
But the behind the scene when
they pipe actually created it
creates is created by the kernel.
The kernel as we said F0 for writing.
It provides the correct offset for the right.
Also, for the reading of the zero,
it also provides grant offset for reading.
You see here in the pipe.
We have two current offset,
one of them for the reading file descriptor,
one of them for the writing for descriptor.
So as a reminder.
The kernel does the duplication to create
two file descriptors or does two open.
To provide two file descriptors.
Any answer?
You remember when we discussed
the difference between
duplicating a file descriptor or.
A calling the open system
called multiple times to have
multiple file descriptors.
There there was a huge difference
between these two ways of
generating file descriptors.
So do you remember the difference?
Yes, I suck says two opens and
Jonathan says two separate opens, yes.
We said that if you duplicate
the file descriptor,
basically you duplicate the
number for the file descriptor,
but everything is the same.
The current offset is the same single
current offset gonna be shared by
the duplicate file descriptors.
But when you do open.
They have their own current offset.
So basically you are you have
two distinct file descriptor with
two distinct current offset.
So as you can see here we have one
current offset for the writing,
one correct offset for the reading.
As a result, it is the opening by the kernel.
Not the duplication.
Because each one has its own current offset.
OK, now you can see the main benefit.
So when the parents,
when the process wants to be a parent,
it does issue a system called for.
Before the fork,
it can ask the kernel to have a pipe.
And then does the fork.
When the fork happens.
The parents.
Which already has the file descriptor
0 for reading and file descriptor,
one for writing to the pipe.
Gonna be copied bit by bit to the child.
As a result the child
process also have the same,
exactly the same file descriptor 0 for
reading and find descriptor one for writing.
For instance if the kernel
for the pipe returns 5/4 as a
number for file descriptor 0.
And it returns for instance 6 as
a file descriptor for writing.
Exactly in the child,
the file descriptor at the first
location is going to be 5 for the
reading and going to be six for
the writing in the child process.
Now we have child and the parent as
the producer to the pie and child
and the parent as the consumer.
Again, there is no benefit.
The best communication is this.
One of them becomes the producer and
the other ones becomes the consumer.
And this circle may goes go forever.
So if we want the parents becoms
the producer, meaning that
provides information to the pipe.
And then the child becomes the consumer,
meaning that consumes the information
or read the information from the pipe.
Then we have to close the file
descriptors that are not needed by them.
The parents can close the file
descriptor 0 because it doesn't do
any consumption of the information,
so it closes the reading fund scripted.
And the child closes the writing
file descriptor.
Because it doesn't provide or
produce any information to the party.
And if they do that, we have a circle.
Which the patent rights the information
to the pipe producers information.
And the child consumes it.
What if we want to do the reverse?
The child produced the information and
the parent consumes the information.
So this way the child
provides the information.
And closes the reading file descriptor.
And the parents.
Consumes the information.
And closes the writing
part and file descriptor.
And this way the child
produced information.
And the pattern consumes it.
So these are two ways of conversation
between the child and the parent.
Depends on which one wants to
produce the information, which one
wants to consume the information.
But there are some situations that happens.
At what moments which one should go
into this sleeping mode at at one?
At what moment? Which one should wake
up all the sleeping mode and the waking
up going to be handled by the kernel?
We don't do any system called any
pauses or we don't do any signaling.
Everything going to be handled by the kernel.
So the first question is that if the
consumer wants to read. And bites,
but there is less data inside the pipe.
For instance, if you have information
five and information 10, but the
consumer wants to read A3 integer values.
We have two integer values,
but the consumer wants to read 3 integers.
This is a moment that we
have to think about that,
and the kernel provides a solution for that.
The second situation is that. What if?
What if the consumer wants to read
but there is no data inside the pipe?
There is nothing inside the pipe whether
we already consumed everything or the
producer is still tries to provide
some information, but it's still.
There is no doubt inside the pipe,
so the pipe is empty, nothing is here.
And the consumer wants to read at
least one byte or more than that.
What happens?
The third one is that what if the
consumer wants to read but there is no
producer on the other side of the pipe?
So basically the producer is gone,
or or it exists because of
something and the consumer is still
wants to read the information.
The four situation is that
about the producer. So.
What if the producer wants to
write information? But there is
nobody to consult the information.
So the producer wants to put
information inside the pie,
but there is no consumer.
Maybe because of some situation,
the consumer ends or terminated or etc.
And the 5th position is that?
What did the producer wants to write
information but the pipe is full
so the producer is highly active or
have a high priority and could put a
lot of information inside the pipe.
But the consumer is a lazy process
or it has a large nice value,
meaning that it just wants to give all
the shares of the process to others.
As a result, it's a lazy process.
And the pipe becomes full before the
consumer wants to consume some information.
So what happens in this situation?
So we don't have enough time?
Uh, we're gonna continue next week
on this very few slide remains.
All these situations,
all these weird situation.
Uh, gonna be handled by the Colonel.
If they cannot didn't provide the pipe,
we have to handle all this situation in our
programming by signaling by pausing and etc.
Actually the same problem
happens with my program.
If you check that.
That's why we don't want to do all these.
Handle all these weird situation.
We want the kernel handles all of this
and next week we're gonna discuss.
Uh, we want to explain an example
of using a pipe and discuss all
these situations that is going to be
handled by the kernel, not by us.
And you will see that the
conversation going to be smoothly
happened with Bindi parent and the
child forever without any problem.
And we are done for today and I'm
ready to take your questions.
Thank you, Danielle. Thank you.
Saw a we have one question from ISA.
If you consider finding
scripted to be a pointer.
Doctor returns the exact same pointer,
while open returns a new one.
Uh, so if you park and only go one way,
can we get around imitation by.
Having two pipes simultaneously.
Are you mean having the, uh?
I mean two way pipes.
Uh, I said if I understand your question,
you want to have two way pipes.
You mean you wanted to?
Am I right or?
Yeah, so basically if you have it,
it's called full to Plex,
so let me back here.
So basically it's called full duplex,
meaning that insert is half full and the
communication can happen in both ways,
sometimes producer.
Acts as a producer and sometimes
it acts as a consumer.
Yes, it is possible to have that.
Again, instead of just you handle everything.
I mean, just do as you said.
I mean duplicate the file
descriptors and etc.
Uh, the modern operating system.
You can ask a pipe with full duplex,
meaning that two way communication.
But again, you have to be a.
You have to see your scenario or the way
that you want to do the conversation.
If in your scenario, one process
acts both as a producer and consumer,
then you need a full duplex part.
We don't discuss that because
it's kind of complex.
We leave it as an advanced
system programming.
But yes it is possible.
Yeah, it is called full duplex pipe,
yeah?
So this way a process have the opportunity
of acting as a producer and then
change the role and act as a consumer.
Yeah. It is possible to do that.
But again, you have to be careful
what information is inside the pipe.
Show me some ask for how long did
data will be available in pipe?
Is it related to producer life
down or process done?
That's a very good question.
We're gonna we're gonna answer it.
I mean fully next week.
As long as the program that does the
system called to have it pipe the process.
In our case, the parent that does
the system called for the pipe.
Uh.
Is actually working with the pipe.
The pipe is alive.
If the whole program finishes,
the pipe is gone.
That's that's that's the
lifetime of the pipe.
So as long as the whole
parent is running.
Uh, the pipe is alive.
At some case, if if you have a orphan child,
so if the parent finishes but it's still
the child is working with the pipe.
The pipe is also still alive to a.
Read the information, but we'll explain
later that at the end of the day when all
the information consumed by the child.
Then the pipe is gone. So we I mean.
Simply, we can say that as long as we
have a producer and consumer it is alive.
Otherwise, if we lose both of them at,
the pipe is gone. Yeah.
But next week we will explain more
detail about these situations.
Thank you for attending.
I still confused about when
the parent is the mother.
That's that was my I mean?
And my challenge as well because.
Ah, I cannot, I mean.
A true, even the child.
We don't know.
The child is a son or a daughter.
Or the parent is a?
I mean a father or mother,
but usually we promote the.
Mother and the child is a daughter. Just too.
Yeah, to motivate more, the uh, the.
Uh. What's what we call? I mean,
the discrimination between men and women?
So I mean, during the history
the men were more powerful.
So in order to make it more balanced,
I tried to put more emphasis
on the women's side so.
I consider the parents as a mothers
and the child as a daughter.
That's why I use her cell.
I tried to use her cell her,
she and etc.
A surprise question is that is
there any coding in the final?
The answer is no. Meaning that we
don't ask you to write a code.
However, we may give you a piece of code
and we may ask you to find the problem.
For instance, I would provide
a big piece of code.
In the final exam, and I ask you
what is the problem with this code?
So you don't write the code,
but you have the code,
but you have to find a problem with the code.
Or with the logic of the code, yeah?
One instance of practice is the same exact.
I mean this this program so as I said,
if you run this program
it doesn't work properly.
So if you look at the code,
you have to try to find what is the problem,
what is the problem behind
the deadlock for this program?
This is one way.
So I will be in the office and the
Virtual Office for your questions or
anything related to the course and.
Thank you so much for attending this
class and have a great day. Take care.